hello we begin in KH Yunis in southern
Gaza where Israeli forces have stormed
the largest medical facility in the
strip nasad hospital has been under
siege for weeks these are scenes moments
after it was shelled overnight Israeli
soldiers then launched their raid
forcing everyone out including patients
in intensive care and families
Sheltering from Israeli
attacks I left with my husband he is
blind I was doing kidney dialysis they
destroyed the wall surrounding us as
well as Dr rit's room they ordered us to
leave and fired at us they fired bombs
and Rockets on our heads from the top
they demolished the building we left
from the door and we walked through
sewage along with my husband the
Israelis then took my husband and I lost
my two bags I cannot find
them last night was very difficult the
air strikes were so tense and hit a room
of patience two people were killed and
one of them is unidentified he was hit
by rocket fire and split in half his
lower part was inside the hospital and
the other half outside the building
people were hurt people who'd already
been injured the orthopedic department
has been completely destroyed the entire
complex was in
chaos the displaced and the patients
were ordered to evacuate the hospital
immediately there were snipers and they
head above our heads we couldn't move
from building to building there were
many bodies by the hospital entrance it
was worse than what happened at alifa
hospital I'm injured and I was forced to
walk an hour because there were no
ambulances no medical staff and no red
cison there was no one to help us Escape
no one let's get an update from T abum
who's joining us from ra City in
southern Gaza I mean t these are
harrowing stories coming out of a nasad
hospital not the first time that
Israelis conduct a raid on a hospital
where they intensive care patients what
are you hearing about the situation
right now and what's happened to the
patients well it was clearly quite
predictable during that the Israeli
forces were planning to storm uh the
NASA medical facility as they have been
putting the entire facility of the place
under a Israeli military Siege where
they were preventing anyone from moving
their on the ground and uh today they
have stormed the vicinity of the
hospital as Israeli forces had uh
entered and stormed different
Departments of the of the hospital as
they were forcing people to flee and to
get out from this medical facility now
also the Israeli fighs have targeted the
orthopedic department where a number of
medical teams have been injured inside
this medical uh facility but we need to
clearly understand that there are still
patients alongside with Medical Teams
there inside the hospital where the
Israeli forces are informing and require
requesting from people to get out from
the hospital while there are some
patients who are in a very desperate
need for assistance by somebody else
they have refused their demands to
afford them help as they are forced to
flee along there and it's a clear black
out of communication there where nobody
can know more information about what is
happening in terms of the situation
inside the hospital because the Israeli
forces are are informing everyone to get
out from this medical facility while
some people by the way get arrested at
as they were fleeing uh the hospital by
the Israeli military forces throughout
the military checkpoints that they were
established on all ways that leading to
an nasar hospital now the Israeli forces
as well had stormed the uh the yards of
the hospital where there are mass Graves
and cemeteries being established for
people who did not manage to be buried
outside of the medical facility the also
the graves had been ruined and destroyed
by the Israeli forces there as a part of
the ongoing genocidal military campaign
in that area Okay uh T just uh uh hang
on there for just a moment cuz I'll get
reaction from hamda and then come back
to you and get an update on the Gaza
Strip ham who joining us from occupied
East Jerusalem to tell us what's being
said by the Israelis on this because
they're putting forward claims that
Hamas had previously held hostages at
that hospital and that the bodies of
deceased captives may be present I mean
have they provided any credible evidence
to support these claims
hamda
no sort of evidence provided by the
Israeli military about the claims
they're making the captives were being
held in the unwed hospital and that
there are bodies of captives in the
hospital as well the Israeli Army
spokesperson Daniel hagad speaking at
length and releasing multiple statements
saying that the Israelis had what they
called credible intelligence that the
captives were being held there that
there were bodies of captives and
additionally that Hamas was using the
medic medical facility for military
purposes all of these claims for which
they have not provided that proof to the
public but this is just the latest in a
series of claims that they've made
around hospitals the arantis hospital Al
hospital and most notedly the AL shifa
Hospital remember they said that Hamas
was using it as some sort of military
headquarters for their military
operations but that was not true and
there was no sort of information to B up
those claims there have also been
cemeteries and graveyards that have been
desecrated bodies that have been dug up
and taken from those grave sites because
they also believed there were the bodies
of captives there based on intelligence
but again there was no result there and
the intelligence that they said they had
to back up those claims was simply not
provided the Israeli Army says that
they're working at length to protect
civilians but at least 10,000
Palestinians are Sheltering in an around
the unid medical complex and at least
one person has died as the hospital
continues to be under siege so the
israelies have been making these claims
but again no proof to back them up yet
again Dar okay hamda thank you uh for
that update from occupied East Jerusalem